Fusion auth java blog post (#65)
FusionAuth/fusionauth-site: site/_posts/2020-05-06-using-java-to-manage-fusionauth.md

```java
package io.fusionauth.example;

import java.io.IOException;
import java.io.InputStream;
import java.util.Properties;

public class ApplicationProperties {

    private static String apiKey;
    private static String fusionAuthURL;

    public static String getApiKey() {
        return apiKey;
    }

    public static String getFusionAuthURL() {
        return fusionAuthURL;
    }

    public static void setupProperties() {
        try (InputStream input = ApplicationProperties.class.getResourceAsStream("/application.properties")) {

            Properties prop = new Properties();

            // load a properties file
            prop.load(input);
            fusionAuthURL = prop.getProperty("fusionAuthURL");
            apiKey = prop.getProperty("apiKey");

        } catch (IOException ex) {
            ex.printStackTrace();
        }
    }
}
```

## Creating an application 

In FusionAuth, an [application](https://fusionauth.io/docs/v1/tech/core-concepts/applications) refers to a place where a user can log into. Before you begin integrating authentication capabilities with FusionAuth, you’ll need to create at least one application. 

> For example, if you want to manage the activities of users accessing your todo application, you can create an application on FusionAuth and use it to register users’, manage users’ roles, monitor users’ activities, and more. 

Reviewer: Delete apostrophe after register users.
```suggestion
For example, if you want to manage the activities of users accessing your todo application, you can create an application on FusionAuth and use it to register users, manage users’ roles, monitor users’ activities, and more. 
```

    public static void main(String[] args) {

        ApplicationProperties.setupProperties();

        // Initiating the client
        FusionAuthClient client = new FusionAuthClient(ApplicationProperties.getApiKey(),
                ApplicationProperties.getFusionAuthURL());

        // Initiating the application and providing registration details
        Application app = new Application();

        app.name = "Todo";

        // Creating the request object
        ApplicationRequest request = new ApplicationRequest(app, null);

        // Using the returned ClientResponse object
        ClientResponse<ApplicationResponse, Errors> response = client.createApplication(null, request);

        if (response.wasSuccessful()) {
            System.out.println("Application creation successful");
        } else {
            // Handling errors
            System.out.println(response.exception);
        }
    }

}
```
As you can see from the code above, when initiating the FusionAuth client, we specified the API key and the web address that points to our running FusionAuth application. You will need to provide your own unique values for these parameters.

> Then, we created an `app` object from the `Application` class, and used the object to define the name of the application. We also passed this object as a parameter to the `ApplicationRequest` class. 

Reviewer: Delete comma after 'Application' class
```suggestion
Then, we created an `app` object from the `Application` class and used the object to define the name of the application. We also passed this object as a parameter to the `ApplicationRequest` class. 
```

Notice that the Java client returns a `ClientResponse` object that contains everything that happened while communicating with the FusionAuth server. 

> Also, we passed the value of the first parameter of the `createApplication` method as `null`. This will allow FusionAuth to generate for us a secure random UUID for the created application. 

Reviewer: Do we need "for us" in the second sentence? If so, consider revising to:

This will allow FusionAuth to generate a secure random UUID we can use for the created application.

Author: nope, I'll remove.

  "memberships" : [ ],
  "registrations" : [ {
    "data" : { },
    "preferredLanguages" : [ ],
    "tokens" : { },
    "applicationId" : "3c219e58-ed0e-4b18-ad48-f4f92793ae32",
    "authenticationToken" : null,
    "cleanSpeakId" : null,
    "id" : "7c105c78-c49d-40c1-a5a1-fcff013fd4eb",
    "insertInstant" : 1587299377006,
    "lastLoginInstant" : null,
    "roles" : [ "admin" ],
    "timezone" : null,
    "username" : null,
    "usernameStatus" : "ACTIVE",
    "verified" : true
  } ],
  "active" : true,
  "birthDate" : null,
  "cleanSpeakId" : null,
  "data" : { },
  "email" : "fusionjava@gmail.com",
  "expiry" : null,
  "firstName" : null,
  "fullName" : null,
  "imageUrl" : null,
  "insertInstant" : 1587287741325,
  "lastLoginInstant" : null,
  "lastName" : null,
  "middleName" : null,
  "mobilePhone" : null,
  "parentEmail" : null,
  "tenantId" : "31626538-3731-3762-3664-303931343339",
  "timezone" : null,
  "twoFactorDelivery" : "None",
  "twoFactorEnabled" : false,
  "twoFactorSecret" : null,
  "username" : "fusionjava",
  "usernameStatus" : "ACTIVE"
}
```
This would be useful for displaying on their profile page in the todo application, for example.

## Log in a user

> Let’s say we want to use the FusionAuth Java client to login the user we’d created. We'd do this if we wanted to log a user in using our own application, rather than using [FusionAuth's OAuth capabilities](https://fusionauth.io/docs/v1/tech/oauth/) and the Authorization Code grant. You might do this if you were building a command line tool to add todos.

Reviewer: Log in is a verb in the in the first sentence and should be two words. Log in.
```suggestion
Let’s say we want to use the FusionAuth Java client to log in the user we’d created. We'd do this if we wanted to log a user in using our application, rather than using [FusionAuth's OAuth capabilities](https://fusionauth.io/docs/v1/tech/oauth/) and the Authorization Code grant. You might do this if you were building a command line tool to add todos.
```

Author: good catch

> Let’s say we want to use the FusionAuth Java client to login the user we’d created. We'd do this if we wanted to log a user in using our own application, rather than using [FusionAuth's OAuth capabilities](https://fusionauth.io/docs/v1/tech/oauth/) and the Authorization Code grant. You might do this if you were building a command line tool to add todos.

Reviewer: Use verb form of log in in first sentence.
```suggestion
Let’s say we want to use the FusionAuth Java client to log in the user we’d created.
```

We can do this by using the `login` method. This method allows us to login a user programmatically using the same credentials for logging them into FusionAuth. We’ll also provide the ID of the FusionAuth application where the user will log into. 

> To login the user, we’ll use the `LoginRequest` class to create a `request` object. It’s this object which we’ll pass as an argument to the `login` method. 

Reviewer: Use verb form of log in.
```suggestion
To log in the user, we’ll use the `LoginRequest` class to create a `request` object. It’s this object which we’ll pass as an argument to the `login` method. 
```

Here is the code:

```java
package io.fusionauth.example;

import com.inversoft.error.Errors;
import io.fusionauth.client.FusionAuthClient;
import io.fusionauth.domain.api.user.ChangePasswordRequest;

import com.inversoft.rest.ClientResponse;

public class ChangePassword {

    public static void main(String[] args) {

        ApplicationProperties.setupProperties();

        // Initiating the client
        FusionAuthClient client = new FusionAuthClient(ApplicationProperties.getApiKey(),
                ApplicationProperties.getFusionAuthURL());

        // Creating the request object
        ChangePasswordRequest request = new ChangePasswordRequest("fusionjava@gmail.com", "xxxxxxxxxx", "xxxxxxxxxx");

        // Using the returned ClientResponse object
        ClientResponse<Void, Errors> response = client.changePasswordByIdentity(request);

        if (response.wasSuccessful()) {
            System.out.println("Password change successful");

        } else {
            // Handling errors
            System.out.println(response.errorResponse);
        }
    }
}
```

## Deactivating a user

> To deactivate a user, we'll use the `deactivateUser` method. We'll provide the user's ID as a UUID string in the parameter's value. Deactivation means they cannot login, which might happen if the credit card they used to sign up for the todo app was declined.

Reviewer: Use verb form of log in.
```suggestion
Deactivation means they cannot log in, which might happen if the credit card they used to sign up for the todo app was declined.
```

Here is the code:

```java
package io.fusionauth.example;

import java.util.UUID;
import com.inversoft.error.Errors;
import io.fusionauth.client.FusionAuthClient;
import com.inversoft.rest.ClientResponse;

public class DeleteUser {

    public static void main(String[] args) {

        ApplicationProperties.setupProperties();

        // Initiating the client
        FusionAuthClient client = new FusionAuthClient(ApplicationProperties.getApiKey(),
                ApplicationProperties.getFusionAuthURL());

        UUID userId = UUID.fromString("5eb46e47-927c-41ac-ae60-ed88e3840edd");

        // Using the returned ClientResponse object
        ClientResponse<Void, Errors> response = client.deleteUser(userId);

        if (response.wasSuccessful()) {
            System.out.println(response.successResponse);

        } else {
            // Handling errors
            System.out.println(response.errorResponse);
        }
    }
}
```

If you run the above code, and the request is successful, you'll get a response of `null`, indicating that the user has been deleted from FusionAuth.

## Deactivating an application

> To deactivate an application, we'll use the `deactivateApplication` method and provide the ID of the application as its parameter. This disables the application, but does not delete all the data. You might do this if you need to disable logins for all users due for system maintenance.

Reviewer: Delete comma in second sentence.
```suggestion
This disables the application but does not delete all the data.
```
